---
layout: post
title: Building Evince for development.
tags: Evince OpenSourceDevelopment
---
[Evince](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Evince) is default, open source
document viewer on linux.

You can find source code for evince
[here](http://github.com/gnome/evince). If you want to contribute
to gnome apps, I would recommend you to first visit
[Gnome Newcomers guide](https://wiki.gnome.org/Newcomers).
It has a very good step by step introduction of how to
contribute.

<!--more-->
Building gnome application is easy but
for new comers or beginners in open source development world
is a bit hard to catch on. I recently started taking interest
and thought that I should give this a try. I too failed initially
and asked for help on their [mailing list](evince-list@gnome.org).
I must tell that people behind evince are very helpful and
understanding. They let you openly ask queries if you have
any and are ready to guide you at any point.

I am writing this post to help those who want to contribute
to gnome. This post is about building evince but I guess
it will be the same for any gnome app.

So the steps involved (for debian based distributions) are as follows.

### Install required packages.

    sudo apt-get install apt-file docbook-xsl build-essential     git-core gettext    
    sudo apt-get install apt-file
    sudo apt-file update

### Install Jhbuild
Jhbuild is software widely used for developing gnome apps. Jhbuild acts as environment in which you can run applications without causing any trouble to your host system. You should learn
more about Jhbuild [here](https://wiki.gnome.org/HowDoI/Jhbuild).You should at least clear your concepts about jhbuild from the given link. If you have already installed and/or messed up with jhbuild you can goto that link or you can continue here itself.

Download and install latest Jhbuild:

    mkdir ~/jhbuild
    cd ~/jhbuild
    git clone git://git.gnome.org/jhbuild
    cd ~/jhbuild/jhbuild
    /autogen.sh --simple-install
    make
    make install    
Set up link to execute from command line.

    mkdir ~/bin
    ln -sf ~/.local/bin/jhbuild ~/bin/jhbuild
### Install system dependencies:
you can configure Jhbuild config while manually and can store it in ~/.config/jhbuildrc.If you didn't, it will use default configuration file. I tried to configure but some problems showed up. So let's stick to the default file. It might download and install some unwanted files but it will ensure that you don't get any errors. After this build all system dependencies.

    jhbuild sysdeps --install
    jhbuild build adwaita-icon-theme dconf glib-networking gvfs
This is required only once.
### Building for the first time:

     jhbuild build evince

If you get any errors visit [here](https://wiki.gnome.org/HowDoI/Jhbuild#If_things_go_wrong)
### Changing and building again:

    jhbuild buildone evince
### Run evince:

    jhbuild run evince
I also asked some help about project structure on mailing list. They explained some things to me, which are as follows:   
Which directories stands for what:    

+ shell: user interface   
+ backend: supported formats (pdf, ps, dvi, comicz, …)    
+ libdocument: abstractions of a document    
+ libview: how a document/page is shown, navigated, etc. (libview provides widgets)

I hope this will get you started. Wish you good luck. :+1:    
Thats all folks.
